Russian authorities
have raided
over 1,600 homes
of Jehovah’s Witnesses
since 2017.
In the early morning hours
of October 4, 2021,
dozens of law-enforcement officers
burst into homes of Jehovah’s Witnesses
in the city of Irkutsk, Siberia.
Several were beaten and humiliated.
At 6:15 a.m., they
smashed the window
and knocked it out.
My husband thought burglars had broken in.
He went to check the window
and was immediately thrown down to the floor,
which was covered with glass.
His feet, elbows, and hands were bloodied.
My wife and I were woken up
by persistent ringing
of our doorbell.
I remember opening the door.
Then suddenly I was forced to the floor.
I felt that my front tooth
had been partially broken off.
I heard the officers starting to beat him.
My wife was crying and shouting
so that they would stop beating me.
They broke into our apartment
through the window.
They started shouting at me
to lie facedown on the floor.
I replied: “What’s happening?
“I’ve got a small child here.
Why have you broken in like this?”
My child was terrified.
In some cases, the officers resorted
to torture to try to force the Witnesses
to incriminate themselves
or to divulge personal information.
At the Razdobarov home, officers
stripped Anatoly naked
and forced him to lie on the floor.
I tried to raise my head.
They hit me in the face.
They kicked me in the area
of my kidneys and my head.
And then masked men
came up behind me
and lifted me up.
They twisted my arms like this
and started hoisting me up from the ground.
It was incredibly painful.
One sat on my leg,
and the other tried to further
torture me by trying to force a glass bottle
into my buttocks.
They finally left me for a while
just lying naked on the floor.
The door was open.
It was freezing cold.
After the raids,
seven other Jehovah’s Witnesses
(Sergey Kosteev,
Nikolay Martynov,
Yaroslav Kalin, Mikhail Moish,
Alexsey Solnechny, Sergey Vasilyev,
and Andrey Tolmachev)
were detained and sent
to a temporary holding cell.
On the following day,
a court hearing took place to decide
what restrictive measures
would be imposed on the men.
Around 300 friends
turned up at the courthouse
to show support for the men.
I am very grateful
to the brothers and sisters who stood
outside the court
in the cold for 12 hours,
even with children, in order
to support the brothers
who were in the court while the judges
were deciding on the restrictive measures.
It was something special.
I immediately felt
that we are part of a brotherhood.
It was so obvious
that the words of the friends
came from the depths of their hearts
and that they were right there with us.
The judges ruled to send six men
to a pretrial detention center.
The violent raids in Irkutsk tested the faith
of the local Jehovah’s Witnesses.
However, they firmly believe
that what took place
has drawn them closer together
and strengthened their faith.
When I would read about
what happened in other cities,
I often wondered
how I would react in that situation.
Now it has happened to me,
and I have seen how Jehovah
has really supported me.
I felt that there were angels with us
because of the way we endured
throughout the whole search.
I know it was only possible with Jehovah.
I was completely calm
and felt total inner peace during the search.
After this experience, I am certain
that any brother or sister
who serves Jehovah today
and does so sincerely
and wholeheartedly can endure
no matter what trials he faces in life.
That’s for sure.